---
title: "2020-01-22 Notes"
weight: 1
type: "post"
date: 2020-01-17
---

[How to join](..)

### Recording

[Meeting recording](https://youtu.be/WO2JuBew4wU)
{{< youtube id="WO2JuBew4wU" >}}

### Agenda

- Welcome to New Community Committee Member.

- What to do if a PR doesn't get reviewed in a reasonable
  time frame?
  - Minimum time before a maintainer may merge a PR without a review is 24 hours.
  - Recommended time to wait before maintainer can merge a PR without a review is
    72 hours.
  - PRs to fix broken pipelines or high risk security issues are exempt.
  - Potential to use `High Priority` label to flag PRs that have to be merged
    before 24 hour time frame.

- Migration to Continuous Delivery Process:
  - Updated documentation/blog posts.
  - Completed?
    - ActiveDirectoryDsc
    - NetworkingDsc
    - SharePointDsc
    - SQLServerDsc
    - WSManDsc
    - xFailOverCluster
    - xPSDesiredStateConfiguration
    - xWebAdministration
    - GPRegistryPolicyDsc
  - In progress:
    - ComputerManagementDsc
    - xExchange

- These repositories are no longer at the location. Can we move them to the
  community organization?
  - https://github.com/AutomatedLab/DscWorkshop
  - https://github.com/AutomatedLab/CommonTasks

#### Resources that have been released recently

- ActiveDirectoryDsc: 5.0.0
- SQLServer: v13.3.0
- WSManDsc: v3.1.0
- xFailOverCluster: v1.14.0, v1.14.1
- xPSDesiredStateConfiguration: v9.0.0
- xWebAdministration: v3.1.1

### Discussions

Topics or questions from the community (welcome at any point during the call)

Talk to us on **Virtual PowerShell User Group** _#DSC_ channel.
For information on how to join, see https://dsccommunity.org/community/contact/
