---
title: "2021-11-17 Notes"
weight: 980
type: "post"
date: 2021-11-17
---

### Recording

{{< youtube id="0QRHBk6auTM" >}}

#### Quick update on activity

- Azure DevOps has removed the build worker Ubuntu 16.04. Repos using
  it in the pipeline (well, all of them) need to change to 'ubuntu-latest'.
  Example: https://github.com/dsccommunity/SqlServerDsc/pull/1733/files
- Azure Devops has deprecated the build worker Windows Server 2016 ('windows-2016').
  Repos using that for unit test or integration tests need to move to 'windows-2019',
  'windows-2022', or 'windows-latest' before March 2022. This may cause problems
  with assuring support on older operating systems. It could even result in support
  for older operating systems to be dropped for DSC resources, unless the community
  can find a way to easily run integration test on these older but still
  (by Microsoft) supported operating systems.

Community updates.

- Gael showed off how to set up a pipeline for your Choco package. See video above.
- Raimund talked about the DscWorkshop project, and Gael showed a demo. See video
  above.

#### DSC resource modules that have been released recently

- Releases
  - xExchange 1.33.0
  - SharePointDSC 4.9.0
- Preview releases
  - ConfigMgrCBDsc 2.1.0-preview0008
  - SqlServerDsc v16.0.0-preview0001

#### Tooling modules that have been released recently

- Releases
  - DscResource.DocGenerator 0.10.1
  - Sampler.GitHubTasks v0.3.3
- Preview releases
  - Sampler v0.112.1-preview0002

#### Community questions

_Submit your questions, or raise them directly in the call._

#### Next Community Call

Next community call is on the 9th of February.
Suggestions for talks are welcomed.
