---
title: "2021-10-06 Notes"
weight: 981
type: "post"
date: 2021-10-06
---

### Recording

{{< youtube id="TrrSvisNUhk" >}}

### Agenda

- Steve and Andrew from the PowerShell team join us to discuss the recent
  changes to PowerShell DSC.

#### Quick update on activity

- xPSDesiredStateConfiguration has now be moved to auto documentation,
  using GitHub Repository Wiki. _(though need another merge for it to publish)_
- xExchange
  - We unblocked contributors in xExchange.
  - Working on fixing the pipeline that blocking releases (PR is in review)
  - **Since Mike no longer have time to maintain xExchange the community need a
    new maintainer for that repository. Please reach out in #dsc channel
    if you are interested!**
- SqlServerDsc
  - Review PR's to unblock contributors.
  - Still working on the Pester 5 tests for this repo.
- Codecov.io has deprecated their bash uploader. The bash uploader recently
  broke. It can no longer publish coverage since the bash uploader does not
  detect the "repository information" when run in Azure Pipelines.
  - All repos that uses Codecov.io need to be moved to new uploader.
    See https://community.codecov.com/t/public-repositories-can-no-longer-upload-coverage-with-error-unable-to-locate-build-via-azure-api/3242/2

#### DSC resource modules that have been released recently

- Releases
  - SharePointDsc 4.8.0
  - SqlServerDsc 15.2.0
  - ComputerManagementDsc 8.5.0
- Preview releases
  - ConfigMgrCBDsc 2.1.0-preview0007
  - xPSDesiredStateConfiguration 9.2.0-preview0007
  - SharePointDSC 4.8.1-preview0001

#### Tooling modules that have been released recently

- Releases
  - Sampler 0.112.0
  - DscResource.Test 0.16.0
- Preview releases
  - Sampler 0.112.1-preview0001
  - DscResource.Common 0.11.0-preview0001

#### Community questions

_Submit your questions, or raise them directly in the call._

#### Next Community Call

Next community call is on the 17th of November.
Suggestions for talks are welcomed.
